Hi and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to look at how to use decorators
that they themselves take parameters.
In the last video, we looked at how we can get
the function to take a parameter.
Now in this video, we're going to look at
how to get the decorator to take a parameter.
In the last video, when we wanted to make our function
take a parameter, all we did was
put in the parameter that we wanna use,
put it inside the function that will replace our function,
so that they have the same signature,
and then, of course, call the original function
with that parameter at the point of using it.
Then, of course, you'll wanna be able to use
the parameter, when you require.
So this is how you can get the function to take a parameter
but we said that it wasn't very generic and it's not.
We're gonna learn how to make it more generic soon.
But really, there's another problem,
which is that if your access_level is guest,
you don't have access.
If your access_level is admin, you do.
And that is hard coded here in the decorator.
But what if you wanted to change this decorator
so that other users could access it?
Like, for example, just normal users.
You could of course, go to this decorator and say
if user, you can access.
But this is a bit limiting,
because whoever uses a decorator,
can not decide what access_level
you can access a function with.
So what I'm saying is I would like to
be able to modify this decorator
to say, admin, for example.
And now this function will only be accessible
by users who have an access_level of admin.
So this is what we want to do.
But we must do something that makes this decorator
a little bit more complicated,
in order to be able to do this.
Remember, a decorator is a function that takes in a function
and returns another function.
That function that it returns
must call the original function
and it can also do other things.
In this case it only calls it
if the user's access_level is user.
So this must not change.
So we know that and we also know that when we have anything,
followed by a pair of brackets, this is a function call.
Let's forget about the @ for a moment.
If you saw this in Python,
you'd think this must be some sort of function call.
Because it's got the brackets.
So there must be a function called user_has_permission
and that function must have a parameter
and I am passing this argument to that parameter, admin.
And I'd say you would be correct.
In, I believe, all cases this means that in Python.
Brackets means there's a function call.
And, therefore, there must be a parameter in the function
in order to be able to pass this in.
But there is not.
Because here the function is this.
This is the parameter, this is the argument.
So there's nothing to take in the admin.
Another thing that I notice when I do this is
when we use our decorator normally,
there is no set of brackets.
Hmm.
But this is clearly a function,
so why is there no set of brackets at the end?
Well because the decorator syntax does it for us.
We do my_function = user_has_permission(my_function)
Okay, this decorator syntax does this function call for us.
That's part of its usefulness.
So what happens when we do this then?
This now replaces what previously was not a function call.
So when we do this, we are doing this.
We are calling the user_has_permission function,
that has to return a function that we then call,
with the original function as an argument.
So at this point is, you know, mind blown.
What the hell is going on here?
And it can get quite confusing because,
like they say in the movie Inception,
you know, we have to go deeper.
We have to go another level deep.
Because previously we have a decorator
that returns a function.
And the decorator takes in the function.
Now we need a function that returns a function,
that takes in a function,
which then returns another function.
(laughs) So this is pretty ridiculous.
Let's write some code out to make this a bit more clear.
We are going to do a sort of third level.
And this is actually going to be access_level.
We are going to indent all of that
and then we're going to return user_has_permission.
Okay.
So.
What is happening now is that
the decorator we're calling now
is going to be called third_level, okay?
It's not a good name for a decorator,
we're gonna change it in a moment,
I just didn't wanna change
too many things at once for you guys.
We've got the third_level decorator,
which gets called, essentially, like this.
So the third_level function takes in
the access_level, which is admin.
Inside this function we define another function.
This function is the one that takes in a function, okay?
So third_level returns the function
that takes in a function.
When we call third_level,
we get a function that takes in a function.
So we have a function call,
and this function is going into func.
I know there is a lot of brackets here,
but essentially, what we are doing is doing this,
user_has_permission is third_level of admin.
And then we're back to what we know.
That.
This is essentially what's happening,
but only one line, when you do this.
Now because it's got the brackets, this is a function call
that evaluates before the decorator runs.
So we create a function that takes in this access_level
and the great thing is that then we can use it,
so instead of user, we can replace it by access_level.
But we end up with three functions, one inside another.
Hopefully this makes a bit of sense.
It can be quite a tricky thing to fully understand.
But think of it in this way.
What we're doing is we are calling the function,
giving it an access_level parameter, sorry, an argument.
Then that creates another function,
and that is our decorator.
Normally when we call a decorator,
we don't have the brackets.
So that gives us the decorator, which just acts as normal,
takes in the function
and then wraps around it and returns another function
that does things and then calls
the original function in here with any arguments.
The benefit is that we can use any argument
that we passed to the original decorator,
like the access_level in this case.
So if we now, you know, do print(my_function('movies')).
Notice how the third_level decorator has the argument admin
and our access_level is user,
when we get run this, we get none.
But if we change this to user and we run this,
we now get password for the movies panel is 1234.
So as you can see, this is being used there.
Normally the names would be
user_has_permission would be the decorator that you use.
And inside it you would define a function
that can be called anything you want, really,
like my_decorator.
And then that would be what's returned at the end.
So very important, user_has_permission
defines a function and then returns it.
The decorator defines a function and then returns it.
It's very important that the indentation levels
are all correct in here.
The innermost function must call the original function,
so that it's a decorator.
Otherwise it's just a higher order function.
Hopefully this makes sense.
We have looked at how to add arguments to a decorator,
and that has meant adding a third level
of function definitions inside it.
If you have any questions, please ask in the course Q&A.
We'd be more than happy to help you.
We don't want this to be confusing.
But the truth is it can be a bit tricky.
So with that said, I'll see you on the next video.